feat: add escrow module spec for stake-to-vote locking (#74)
interlay/interbtc-spec: docs/spec/escrow.rst

.. _escrow-protocol:

Escrow
======

Overview
~~~~~~~~

The Escrow module allows users to lockup tokens in exchange for a non-fungible voting asset. The total "power" of this asset decays linearly as the lock approaches expiry - calculated based on the block height. Historic points for the linear function are recorded each time a user's balance is adjusted which allows us to re-construct voting power at a particular point in time.

This architecture was adopted from Curve, see: `Vote-Escrowed CRV (veCRV) <https://curve.readthedocs.io/dao-vecrv.html>`_.

Step-by-step
------------

> 1. A user may lock any amount of some currency up to a maximum lock period.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. A user may lock any amount of defined governance currency (KINT on Kintsugi, INTR on Interlay) up to a maximum lock period.
```

Stores scheduled changes of slopes for ending locks.

Structs
-------

LockedBalance
.............

The ``amount`` and ``end`` height for a locked balance.

.. tabularcolumns:: |l|L|

==============  ============  ========================================================	
Parameter       Type          Description                                            
==============  ============  ========================================================
``amount``      Balance       The amount deposited to receive vote-escrowed tokens.
``end``         BlockNumber   The end height after which the balance can be unlocked.
==============  ============  ========================================================

Point
.....

The ``bias``, ``slope`` and ``ts`` for our linear function.

.. tabularcolumns:: |l|L|

==============  ============  ========================================================	
Parameter       Type          Description                                            
==============  ============  ========================================================
``bias``        Balance       The bias for the linear function.
``slope``       Balance       The slope for the linear function.

> ``ts``          BlockNumber   The current block height when this point was stored.

Reviewer: Nitpick: maybe name this `timestamp` for better readability.

Reviewer 2: +1

==============  ============  ========================================================

Functions
~~~~~~~~~

.. _escrow-function-create-lock:

create_lock
-----------

Create a lock on the account's balance to expire in the future.

Specification
.............

*Function Signature*

> ``create_lock(who, amount, unlock_height)``

Reviewer 3: is this active_block_height or the regular block_height?

Author: This is the regular `bloc_height` for now, I don't think we need to use the `active_block_height` since governance is operable even in shutdown.

*Parameters*

> * ``who``: The user's address.

Reviewer 2: Nitpick - could be a better name, but don't have a suggestion either :)

* ``amount``: The amount to be locked.
* ``unlock_height``: The height to lock until.

*Events*

* :ref:`escrow-event-deposit`

*Preconditions*

* The function call MUST be signed by ``who``.
* The ``amount`` MUST be non-zero.
* The account ``who`` MUST NOT already have locked balance.

> * The ``unlock_height`` MUST be greater than ``now``.

Reviewer: Question: do we allow for arbitrary lock times? IIRC Curve has a fixed period like 2,3, and 4 years. Ok with both, more of me being curious.

Reviewer 2: That's just the Curve UI. The minimum lock is 1 week and they measure is 1 week steps (round down to weeks): https://github.com/curvefi/curve-dao-contracts/blob/master/contracts/VotingEscrow.vy#L419

I think doing something like this makes sense --> makes it less gameable. 
Example: Greg locks for 1 year. Dom sees this and locks for 1 year + 1 block - and beats Greg --> although arguable there is no real difference in terms of stake. 

1 week is not a huge difference, but it's at least not on a "per-block" level. 

I suggest we do 
-  the same as Curve and round-down to weeks (min lock = 1 week)
- Set max time to 2x the parachain lease period (48 weeks * 2). 

--> then we only need to change the "lease period" var for the Polkadot deployment

Reviewer: **Lock time measurement**

> Example: Greg locks for 1 year. Dom sees this and locks for 1 year + 1 block - and beats Greg --> although arguable there is no real difference in terms of stake.

The same holds for 1 year + 1 week -> still beat Greg but the lock is just marginally longer. I don't think that is enough of an argument to justify the additional edge case handling over just using blocks directly.

**Lock time = 2x parachain lease period**

We can do that, but I don't think we have that constant on the parachain thus far. @gregdhill you know that better than I do though :) I think it will need to be added for the vesting as well so we might as well have a constant somewhere. My only comment is that the maximum will be different between Kintsugi and Interlay. So any code consuming this, can't take shortcuts.

Author: The maximum lock time is already a constant and can be adjusted for Kintsugi and Interlay.

* The ``unlock_height`` MUST NOT be greater than ``now + MaxPeriod``.

*Postconditions*

* The account's ``LockedBalance`` MUST be set as follows:

    * ``new_locked.amount``: MUST be the ``amount``.
    * ``new_locked.end``: MUST be the ``unlock_height``.

.. _escrow-function-increase-amount:

increase_amount
---------------

Deposit additional tokens for a pre-existing lock to improve voting power.

Specification
.............

*Function Signature*

``increase_amount(who, amount)``

*Parameters*

* ``who``: The user's address.
* ``amount``: The amount to be locked.

*Events*

* :ref:`escrow-event-deposit`

*Preconditions*

* The function call MUST be signed by ``who``.
* The ``amount`` MUST be non-zero.
* The account's ``old_locked.amount`` MUST be non-zero.
* The account's ``old_locked.end`` MUST be greater than ``now``.

*Postconditions*

* The account's ``LockedBalance`` MUST be set as follows:

    * ``new_locked.amount``: MUST be ``old_locked.amount + amount``.
    * ``new_locked.end``: MUST be the ``old_locked.end``.

.. _escrow-function-increase-unlock-height:

> increase_unlock_height

Reviewer: `extend_unlock_height`?

Author: Based on the naming used by [curve](https://github.com/curvefi/curve-dao-contracts/blob/702c9b59de1542d78656c9c949e9ee8e6d206543/contracts/VotingEscrow.vy#L450), but happy to change.

----------------------

Push back the expiry on a pre-existing lock to retain voting power.

Specification
.............

*Function Signature*

``increase_unlock_height(who, unlock_height)``

*Parameters*

* ``who``: The user's address.
* ``unlock_height``: The new expiry deadline.

*Events*

* :ref:`escrow-event-deposit`

*Preconditions*

* The function call MUST be signed by ``who``.
* The ``amount`` MUST be non-zero.
* The account's ``old_locked.amount`` MUST be non-zero.

> * The account's ``old_locked.end`` MUST be greater than ``now``.

Reviewer: I think we can lift that requirement. If the lock has passed, the escrow is not lifted until the user actually withdraws their tokens. That way the user can just call this function instead of having to lock from scratch again.

Reviewer 2: +1

Author: This is as it is implemented in curve's contracts, I'm wary of removing any such checks as I'm not sure how it will affect the core logic.

Reviewer: Ok, then let's leave it in

* The ``unlock_height`` MUST be greater than ``old_locked.end``.
* The ``unlock_height`` MUST NOT be greater than ``now + MaxPeriod``.

*Postconditions*

* The account's ``LockedBalance`` MUST be set as follows:

    * ``new_locked.amount``: MUST be ``old_locked.amount``.
    * ``new_locked.end``: MUST be the ``unlock_height``.

.. _escrow-function-withdraw:

> increase_withdraw

Reviewer: `withdraw`

-----------------

> Remove the lock on an account.

Reviewer 2: Should make clear that only tokens that are unlocked can be withdrawn. 

Also: do we allow withdraw(amount) or is there a reason for not doing this?

Reviewer: The way that the function is currently defined, as I understand it, you can only withdraw once the entire lock has passed. So e.g. you lock 100 tokens at t_0 until t_100. At t_50 you cannot withdraw any tokens since you committed to locking them until t_100. So you unlock 100% (after t_100) or none at all (before t_100). Which I think is in line with how the system is supposed to work. For the same reason, `withdraw(amount)` should not be possible.

I guess @gregdhill had the same understanding. That's also how Curve works: 
- https://curve.readthedocs.io/dao-vecrv.html#working-with-vote-locks
- https://github.com/curvefi/curve-dao-contracts/blob/master/contracts/VotingEscrow.vy#L469
It's only possible to withdraw once the lock expires for all tokens.

Author: @nud3l is correct, we can only withdraw the full amount after the lock has expired.
